So if you go back to your code, you can
remove this, we don't need to call out
we just wanted to show you what's the
buffer data the way that it's coming back.
So under your buffer variable here,
we're going to create an image
tensor out of this buffer data.
So we can create a variable
called ImageTensor.
And because we're in node here,
we are going to call tf.node.
And then on top of that, we're going
to be able to call some specific
methods to decode our data and
also resize it.
Because at the moment, our drawings
are in 200 by 200 thresholds, but
we don't actually need to feed into
the model data that is that big,
we're gonna resize it to a smaller size.
So it's usually,
it will just go faster and
we really don't need to be looking at
every single pixel in a 200 by 200.
So after tf.node, we're going to call
the method called decodeImage and
we're passing it the buffer.
And then the resize method here that we're
going to use is resizeNearestNeighbor.
So there's two different
methods to resize,
I'm actually not quite sure why one
would be better than the other.
In this case here,
nearest neighbor works for me.
And when we're calling it we need to pass
the shape that we want our data to be in.
So we're basically transforming each
of our images from a 200 by 200 to a 28
by 28,
you can pick another number later on.
As long as the number that you pick
here is going to be the same as
the number that you going to pick when
we're going to actually build our model.
If you use a different shape here than
the one that the model is expecting,
then you'll get an error of being,
the model was expected shape.
I don't know 24, 24, and
this image is 28, 28.
So as long as you keep the shape the same,
we we should be good.
So, if you're following along,
I picked 28 so maybe use the same value so
that it's easier.
And I think that, we just need to call
the expandDims() function as well.
So this will expand the dimension of the
tensor, because I think some errors before
where the image had an array of three
numbers and actually was expecting four.
So I need to double check exactly why.
But when you get an error,
you run your code and it says,
the model was expecting a certain shape,
and it has another one.
And you can see that the number
of dimension is different.
Sometimes you can just call expandDims and
it will add,
is there a no value or
a zero to add a dimension to your tensor?
It doesn't really do
anything more than that.
And now that we have our image tensor,
we're gonna push it into our images or
so images, push an (imageTensor).
So our images array is going to
contain all of the tensors that
represent our image data.
So that is for the images themselves, but
we still need to deal with the labels.
So under it, what we're going to do is so
the way that I did it we're
going to create a variable.
And because we drew circles and
triangle, I'm gonna do constant circle.
And for each file again,
so files, (i) so this for
each file, just to be sure to
just turn it to lower case some
of you have written circle
with a capital C or anything.
So just to really make sure that
our data is formatted all the same,
just call to lowercase, and
then we're gonna do endsWith.
So we're checking that each of our file
is ending with, here (`circle.png`).
So we're making sure that all of the each
file that we're that we're trying to load
is either a circle or a triangle.
And that's why, when I asked you
to name your files this way,
7-triangle, 8-circle,
it's to make it this easier here.
It's easier to actually figure out if the
current file is a circle or a triangle.
So we're gonna do the same for
the triangle as well.
So if you have decided to draw
a square instead of a triangle,
just make sure to also
adapt your code to that.
But here we have variables here and
what we need to check now is that, well,
is the current file a triangle or
a square?
So there's probably other ways to do this,
but
here I just have okay so if,
not square if circle is true.
So if at the moment the current
font that we are going through in
our loop is actually a circle,
we are going to push into our labels.
So labels.push, and
we're going to push 0, so
that's gonna be,
let's say that squares are 0 or
circles are 0 and triangles will be 1.
So then we can say, Okay,
else if then triangle is true,
we are going to do labels.push and 1.
So the way that TensorFlow or
in general tensors work is that you
can't really pass it pieces of string.
First of all, here we're passing
an integer, and then we'll also
transform that into a tensor as well,
so that it will work with the model.
So at this point here, we have looped
through all the files in our folder,
and we've created tensors from images, and
we've also kind of pushed some label,
either 0 or 1, into our labels array.
And what we need to do after
that is just return our array
of images and labels, so
you can just return that.
But at this point,
we have not called our load images, and
because we need to call it for
both the train images and the test images.
Let's just call a new function
called const loaddata, and
it's just gonna be an arrow function.
And inside there, we're just gonna
make the other console log just so
that when we run this in the terminal
later, not load console.log.
And we're just gonna give us some
little hints of what's going on.
So just console.log, no loading images,
and then we're going to
assign to the variables that we
created here train data and test data.
So, if we call trainData, we're going
to call our loadImages function,
and we're passing it
the path to the folder.
So trainImages there, here and
do the same for testData.
So, testData reloading,
calling our loadImages function and
we're passing testsImages directory,
and after that,
I just want to just to make it
a little bit easier for us as well.
We are going to just call
images loaded successfully but
actually I'm not awaiting, so
maybe it won't even matter I think it
might just console.log at the same time.
So maybe it's not that helpful but
let's leave it like this for now.
Okay, so we started to put
it into arrays images and
labels we have our data,
but at the moment we
kind of need to have two
different functions.
Because we have loaded our trainData and
our testData, but they're not really yet
returned as thing tensors the labels,
at least, are not written as tensors yet.
So to make it easier in terms of structure
of like requiring the data later,
we're just gonna have a function that
we're gonna call, get trainData to only
get the training data, and then get
testData to only get the test data.
So if we call const, getTrainData,
that's an array function as well.
And we're just going to return an object
here and we're gonna have our images.
And these images we're gonna concatenate
all of our training data, so
tf.concat, and that's going to be
trainData and the first element of it.
So if you ever later on decide to
console.log what trainData is,
what's happening is that trainData, the
first element is the bunch of tensors from
our images, and the second is actually
the labels for these images as well.
So we just want to concat the tensors, and
labels here is going to be tf.oneHot.
And again, if you remember yesterday,
it's kind of modifying
categorical data into numbers.
So we already have 0 and 1, but
we want to actually transform
that into a 2 times 10 as well.
So, okay, tensor 1 dimensional, we don't
need more than one dimension here.
And we're going to call trainData in
the first element cuz that will be
the labels of our images.
And we need to transform that into, so
the second element of tensor 1d
needs to be either float 32 and 32.
So here in this case, we will, actually
maybe I think yesterday I used float32.
So let's use float32 and see what happens.
The second argument to the one-Hot is
going to be the number of classes, and
here we only have two.
It's either square or
no, circle or triangle.
So I'm gonna write 2 and I have an issue
with, sorry, I forgot the comma here so
after images because we're returning
an object with just, if you have been
following in you have the same error
as me, don't forget the comma here.
Okay, my bad.
So float 32 needs to be passed
in as the second argument of,
tensor1d not, Yeah, okay, that's it.
Okay, so just to recap, we're calling
TensorFlow oneHot to transform
whatever is passed inside, and
what's passed inside is a one dimensional
tensor of the training data labels,
kind of transformed as floats.
And the second argument
is the number of classes.
So here I had coded 2,
yesterday I think we did labels.length,
but here I didn't actually have
DND clear variable labels.
So you could do it both ways,
it's up to you.
And here this is only to
get the training data, but
we're gonna create another small function
to return the same thing, but testData.
So if you want to not have to rewrite
everything from scratch, we can just
copy the same block and just change
the name of the function to get testData.
And on the images,
we want to then concat the testData,
the first element of the test data array.
And the labels will do the same,
we are just going to change
the trainData to testData, but
otherwise it should be the same.
So that means that the way that we're
transforming our data into tensor is going
to be the same for
the training set and the test set.
And then because we're in node,
we're just going to do module.exports.
And we're going to export
the loadData function,
cuz we gonna call it in another file and
our getTestData and I getTrainData.
Okay, so at this point,
everything should be good.
So just to recap,
we imported the tools that we wanna use.
We have the path to our training set our
test set, we have a function to loop
through all the files in our directory,
transform the images to tensors.
Making new checking if our current
image is a circle or triangle,
pushing an integer representation
of our label into our labels array.
Then we have, just a load function
that's going to load either or
both the training set and the test set.
And then we just have two utils function
to actually return these data as
a tensors with images and labels, okay.